Our brothers and sisters in Brazil
experienced an opportunity
to make special efforts
in their preaching work
when the Olympic
and Paralympic Games were held there
in August and September of 2016.
Close to 15,000 athletes
from approximately 205 countries
were present along with many visitors.
More than one million tourists
were present at the Olympic Games
in Rio de Janeiro,
and among them
were around 410,000 foreigners.
In an effort to teach
these ones about the Bible,
Jehovah’s Witnesses engaged
in a special public witnessing campaign.
To reach as many people as possible,
we set up 268 carts,
not only where the games were held
but also throughout the city
of Rio de Janeiro.
That way, we were able to reach people
from even faraway islands like Vanuatu,
which is one of the islands of the Pacific.
Delegates from that island picked up
publications from our witnessing carts.
We made efforts to put the stands and carts
as close as possible to the places
where the brothers would work.
Thanks to Jehovah, we were able
to get a strategic location near the entrance
to the arenas,
which we didn’t think would be possible.
We planned to have 1,500 volunteers,
but we got 4,000 volunteers.
We asked for help from other cities,
other states, and also
from foreign-language congregations.
So for us,
this was beyond our expectations.
During the Olympics,
more than one million people
passed through the harbor here.
And thanks to Jehovah,
we were able to set up
more than 40 carts
in the immediate harbor area
and placed almost
20,000 pieces of literature.
To refill the carts, we used a quadricycle
that picked up the publications
at the support hub
and took them to the brothers
at the carts.
The media provided extensive coverage
with more than 26,000
press professionals involved,
and security was also reinforced
with more than 22,000 military personnel.
The work of our brothers
certainly did not go unnoticed.
We were at the cart
when suddenly a police car
full of officers stopped in front of us.
I was worried they were going
to ask us questions or make us leave.
But then they got out of the car
and came towards us.
And one of them
picked up the Bible Teach book,
and without saying anything to us,
he told the others:
“Didn’t I tell you
I was going to find them here?
“You can take these publications;
they’re free.
These books will teach you
amazing things!”
This campaign helped
to overcome prejudices,
both with the authorities
and people in general,
because they were able to see
the international scope of our work.
And this became especially clear
when it came to the officials
because they allowed
the brothers to put the carts
as close as possible to the arenas
where the games were being held.
In all, more than 85,000 publications
in more than ten languages
were distributed by means of the 268 carts
scattered throughout the city.
Over a year of planning
went into preparing for this event,
and it produced excellent results.
Our international preaching work
was made known
to thousands present at the Olympic Games,
and most important,
it gave a great shout of praise
to our God, Jehovah.